Propose clear definitions of our log levels (#6311)
MaterializeInc/materialize: doc/user/content/ops/monitoring.md

`prometheus_url`        | `http://<materialized host>/metrics`
`namespace`             | Your choice
`metrics`               | `[mz*]` to select all metrics, or a list of specific metrics

## Logging

Materialize periodically emits messages to its [log file](/cli/#log-filter).
These log messages serve several purposes:

  * To alert operators to critical issues
  * To record system status changes
  * To provide developers with visibility into the system's execution when
    troubleshooting issues

As an operator, you should monitor for messages at the [`WARN` or `ERROR`

> levels](#levels). Every message at either of these levels indicates an

Reviewer: Done.

issue that must be investigated and resolved.

### Message format

Each log message is emitted on its own line with the following format:

> 

Reviewer 2: In this context I would say "written to" rather than "emitted on", but you could also just say "Each log message is a single line in the following format:"

```
<timestamp> <level> <module>: [<tag>]... <body>
```

For example, Materialize emits the following message when a table named `t`
is created:

```
2021-04-08T04:12:25.927738Z  INFO coord::catalog: create table materialize.public.t (u1)
```

The timestamp is always in UTC and formatted according to ISO 8601.

The log level is one of the five levels described in the next section,
formatted with all uppercase letters.

The module path reflects the log message's location in Materialize's source
code. Module paths change frequently from release to release and are not part of
Materialize's stable interface.

The tags, if included, further categorize the message. Tags are surrounded by
square brackets. The currently used tags are:

* `[customer-data]`: the message includes clear-text contents of data in the system

> * `[deprecation]`: a feature in use will be removed or changed in a future release

Reviewer 2: Typically we use tables for what would be definition lists in HTML, but it might be overkill for only two items.

The body is unstructured text intended for human consumption. It may include
embedded newlines.

> ### Levels

Reviewer 2: I would move the Levels section up before message format, because you already mention (without defining) levels in the opening, and knowing what the levels are will make the example messages in the Message Format section easier to read.

Every log message is associated with a level that indicates the severity of the
message. The levels are, in decreasing order of severity, `ERROR`, `WARN`,
`INFO`, `DEBUG`, and `TRACE`.

> Log levels are used in the [`--log-filter` command-line option](/cli/#log-filter)

Reviewer 2: I think this sentence might work better in the intro, as part of the paragraph with instructions to operators: "You can specify which messages to emit and where to save the log file with the `--log-filter` command-line option." (That takes out the explicit mention of log levels, but you discuss that in the message formatting section.)

to determine which log messages to emit.

Messages at each level must meet the indicated standard:

> 

Reviewer 2: This list should definitely be a table with three columns: Level, Description, Examples. I don't think we need both bolding and code formatting for the definition terms; I would go with code formatting.

Reviewer: I tried that, but there isn't enough space in the columns for it to be readable.

* **`ERROR`**: Reports an error that has caused data loss, corruption, or
  unavailability. You should page on-call staff immediately about these errors.

> 

Reviewer 2: This is a nitpick, but in the first sentence "data" applies to "loss" and "corruption" but not "unavailability" (I think). If so, it could be "Reports an error that has caused data loss or corruption or system unavailability."

Same thing for `WARN`.

  Examples:

  * Authentication with an external system (e.g., Amazon S3) has failed.

>   * A source ingested a deletion of a record that does not exist, causing a

Reviewer 2: "the deletion"

    "negative multiplicity."

* **`WARN`**: Reports an issue that may lead to data loss, corruption, or
  unavailability. It is reasonable to check for `WARN`-level messages once per
  day during normal business hours.

  Examples:

  * A network request (e.g., downloading an object from Amazon S3) has failed
    several times, but a retry is in progress.

* **`INFO`**: Reports normal system status changes. Messages at this level may
  be of interest to operators, but do not typically require attention.

  Examples:

  * A view was created.
  * A view was dropped.

* **`DEBUG`**: Provides information that may help when troubleshooting issues.
  Messages at this level are primarily of interest to Materialize engineers.

  Examples:

  * An HTTP request was routed through a proxy specified by the `http_proxy`
    environment variable.
  * An S3 object downloaded by an S3 source had an invalid `Content-Encoding`
    header that was ignored, but the object was nonetheless decoded
    successfully.

* **`TRACE`**: Like `DEBUG`, but the information meets a lower standard of
  relevance or importance.

  Enabling `TRACE` logs can cause Materialize to generate multiple gigabytes of

>   log messages per hour. We recommend that you only enable this level in

Reviewer 2: You can delete "cause Materialize to" from the first sentence.

Materialize emits logs to the stream specified by the `--log-file` invocation
parameter, documented at [cli](/cli).

Materialize strives to make it easy to monitor logs, and so we have clear
standards for each of our log levels. The high-level goal is that materialize
running well should *never* emit `WARN` or `ERROR` level logs, every log at that
level should be resolved.

Our standards are:

* **ERROR**: Likely data loss or misconfiguration leading to corrupt results.
  Logs at this level are worth paging on-call staff immediately.
* **WARN**: Likely misconfiguration. Something which may lead to data loss down
  the road, but is not yet missing data. It is reasonable to check for and
  handle warn-level logs once per day, during normal business hours.
* **INFO**: Normal operation, system status changes. You should be able to use
  these logs and understand the current state of your materialized system.
* **DEBUG**: Data that may help troubleshoot, but is not so verbose as to be
  likely to generate gigabytes of data per hour.
* **TRACE**: May generate multiple messages per record flowing through the
  system. Should only be enabled in development environments or very briefly in

>   production.

Reviewer 3: Where do you see something like "network error sink'ing to kafka, will periodically retry" fitting into this framework?

A handful of examples per level might be useful for making the intent concrete

Author: I think in my ideal world reconnect loops would actually go through multiple log levels: N warn messages, then error messages in perpetuity.

Author: I agree about examples, adding some now.

Reviewer 3: Thanks! The examples helped a lot

`prometheus_url`        | `http://<materialized host>/metrics`
`namespace`             | Your choice
`metrics`               | `[mz*]` to select all metrics, or a list of specific metrics

## System Logs

Materialize emits logs to the stream specified by the `--log-file` invocation
parameter, documented at [cli](/cli).

Materialize strives to make it easy to monitor logs, and so we have clear

> standards for each of our log levels. The high-level goal is that materialize
> running well should *never* emit `WARN` or `ERROR` level logs, every log at that
> level should be resolved.

Reviewer 4: Bit of a pet peeve of mine on the terms, but can we call the noun "log message" or just "message"? 

"It logs logs" is grammatically correct but confusing to read. 

How's this (with an extra clarity fix on the health):
```suggestion
standards for each of our log levels. The high-level goal is that a healthy 
materialized should *never* emit `WARN` or `ERROR` level messages,
every message at that level should be resolved.
```

Reviewer 4: could even get rid of the passive voice by saying "every message at that level needs attention" or something.

Author: Ah, I agree with this concern! I normally use the term `event` instead of message, and used that in other places and will do that here.

Reviewer: I'd rather use "message"; I think it's much clearer!

By default materialized logs only `INFO`, `WARN` and `ERROR` logs, but it is

> possible to enable more-verbose logs by setting the `MZ_LOG` environment

Author: CC @benesch do we want to change this to `MZ_LOG_LEVEL` and expose it as `--log-level`?

Author: or also possibly `MZ_LOG_FILTER`/`--log-filter`

Reviewer: Yes, I've wanted to do that forever! `MZ_LOG_FILTER`/`--log-filter` sounds great to me.

Reviewer: #6317
